All right. So, we wanted to make
a convolutional autoencoder with an encoder made of convolutional and max-pooling layers,
and a decoder made of only transpose convolutional layers.
Here's my solution. I've split up the encoder and decoder portion of the code.
In the init function for my encoder,
I've defined two convolutional layers.
The first sees a grayscale image with depth one and produces 16 feature maps.
Here, I'm using a three-by-three kernel and to keep
the outputs the same X-Y size as the inputs,
I'm padding it with one pixel.
Then the next layer does something similar,
only it decreases the depth from 16 to four feature maps.
Finally, I've defined a max pooling layer with a stride and kernel size of two,
which I'll place after each of
my convolutional layers to reduce the spatial size of the output.
Then I have the decoder.
The decoder's job is to essentially undo
the large downsampling that happened in the encoder portion of this model.
If we look back at our diagram,
we can see that we want each transpose convolutional layer to upsample an image,
and unpull it, as well as modify the depth of our output,
going from a compressed depth of four to 16, then back to one.
This brings us to the size of a reconstructed image,
28 by 28 by 1. Here, I do just that.
I move from a depth of 4 to 16, to 16 to 1,
each time increasing the spatial dimension by two,
by having a kernel and stride size of two.
Now, with this last layer, we'll be able to actually train this model by
comparing the original input images, and their reconstructions.
Then, I'm just putting everything together in the forward function.
I have my series of convolutional and pooling layers in the encoder portion,
and I have my transpose convolutional layers in the decoder portion.
You'll notice that I'm applying a ReLU activation function to every single hidden layer,
with the exception of the output layer.
To this layer, I've applied a sigmoid activation function,
which scales the output so that I'll have
a grayscale pixel values in a range from zero to one.
Next comes training.
Since this is a regression task which compares
pixel quantities rather than class probabilities,
I'm using a mean squared error loss that's better suited for comparing
quantities and I'm using the same Adam optimizer as before.
Then in my training loop,
I'm iterating through my training set of images.
The M in this data contains images and they're correct class labels,
but I don't care about labels in this case.
Instead, I'm just putting the images into the model
which produces some reconstructed output images.
Then, my loss compares these reconstructed images with the originals.
Ideally, these will be almost indistinguishable.
I recorded the training loss after each of my 30 epochs and it
decreased from about 0.55 to about 0.16.
Then, I viewed the results.
Here, I'm displaying 10 original images in
the top row and their reconstructions in the bottom.
A lot of these reconstructions look really good.
This model no longer has the blurriness that our simple linear model had.
Instead though, it does give us some kind of
blocky artifacts and it seems to struggle with curved areas.
These blocky checkerboard like patterns could be due to how
transpose convolutional layers tend to overlap and produce a grid-like pattern.
So, I've also included in Notebook with an alternative solution, which I'll show you next